T and I were in a therapist office like
earlier in our relationship and the
therapist tells us the story about how
one of his clients wakes up in the
middle of the night goes to the bathroom
and starts to pee and misses the toilet
and notice that his head says [__] she
must have moved the
toilet
like and it's funny because we have all
done something like that where we're
like we've we've entrained ourselves in
a relationship where something doesn't
feel right something goes wrong the
other person must be
responsible and so that's how corrosive
blame is in a relationship and so
there's this great saying that I love
which is at the beginning of the path
you blame somebody else in the middle of
the path you blame yourself and at the
end of the path you don't blame
anybody and and that's a really critical
part because usually what happens is if
somebody stops blaming somebody else in
a relationship then they start blaming
themselves or if they're blaming
themselves or not blaming the other
person and all of that is just as
corrosive blaming you or blaming me in a
relationship both of those things are
corrosive so the reason that blame
doesn't work is because it's not true
like blame is not true it's like the
same concept of trying to figure out
like what's exactly fair in a marriage
there's just no way to find it so am I
going to blame you or am I going to
blame your parents because of the way
they raised you or am I going to blame
your grand parents because of the way
that they raised your parents am I going
to blame the blood sugar that you have
is it is it the way that like your day
went at work like what am I blaming is
it your boss's fault who am I blaming
for this thing right so there's this
idea that we have that if we find blame
then we don't have to be
responsible That's The Logical side but
what's actually happening there is what
we're saying is we don't want to feel
the shame so if I blame you I cannot
feel the shame
but that never works in a relationship
and that's why blame is corrosive so I
blame you but I I will feel even a
little bit of Shame for blaming you we
never we never walk away from blaming
somebody and go I feel great it's their
fault right like we're not yeah we're
good it's like it doesn't have it's like
see it's your fault but look at me I
don't [__] I'm not happy that that
hasn't like relieved me of the shame so
that's why the blame doesn't work is
because
like it doesn't actually make you feel
like you want to fix anything if I
blamed you it's like that's not
motivating right hey you're the one to
believe you're right I'm I'm [__] up
it's not like oh wow yeah we could fix
this thing let's do that together or
yeah I could fix this thing and I'll be
happier no it's it's I'm I'm bad so if I
blame you I don't feel better and I
haven't motivated you to fix anything so
like what does it do all it does is it
just passes is shame back and forth
moreover if I go and blame you if I'm
like okay and you're wrong and you
accept it eventually you're going to be
tired of being [__] wrong all the
time you're G to be like I don't want to
[__] be wrong all the time and so
either you're going to be passive
aggressive and start attacking me under
the table or you're going to like throw
that shame back at me
eventually and I and then I'm going to
be blamed and and on and on it goes it's
it's like you've never seen someone say
you know what what we got in this
massive fight I blamed the other person
enough and now it's all resolved like
that [__] has like never happened so
blame is just it doesn't work but
there's something in our mind that says
yeah but somebody's wrong and I question
that I I I question that like if you
need somebody to be wrong in a
relationship so then then you're you're
married to or dating somebody who's
wrong is that a turn on no we're just
all humans and we're all doing things
and sometimes what we do is a match
sometimes what we do is not a match and
everything is a symptom of something
else so we often are told like they were
like the most the worst case scenario
let's just take the worst case scenario
which is she cheated on me like that's
an easy one I Blame You for Cheating On
but yeah the relationship was cold
almost guaranteed before the cheating
happened or she compulsively cheats
because of daddy issues and I and I got
involved in that for some reason some
way I was attracted into that
relationship and so like well is it
really her fault what was what was I
accepting from the beginning how did I
remove my love so that she needed to go
to somebody else right and if I do find
out everything that's wrong with the
other person then I haven't fixed
myself right which means I'm still going
to be attracted to the next woman who's
going to
right I have to look at what my respon
role and responsibility in it and if I'm
blaming someone else I can't do that if
I'm blaming myself I can't do that
either because if I'm blaming myself
that I'm being hard on myself and I
can't objectively look at it in a
shame-free way where I want to actually
improve it so if I'm in a relationship
and I'm saying I screwed up I did it
wrong like this is all my fault in this
relationship one thing I'm doing is I'm
abdicating any kind of accountability
for the other person so that's going to
be like I'm basically telling them
they're weak they're not accountable
they're I'm better than them because I'm
responsible for everything and they're
just like along for the ride as if
they're not like they don't have agency
they're not their own human being that's
the that's
demeaning but the other thing that's
happening is that I am just doing that
so I don't have to feel something
underneath so I don't actually have to
feel the thing that's underneath the
blame which is where my healing happens
my healing doesn't happen by saying I'm
bad I'm [__] up I need to improve
because I can tell you every addict out
there right now who knows they're an
addict is telling themselves that and
it's not changing
[__] I know that you right now if I said
to you tell me about the five things
that you wanted to have changed in the
last decade that haven't
changed every single one of those things
would be [__] that you shame yourself
for that you blame yourself for that you
say you're bad for so it doesn't heal
anything because it prevents you from
feeling the emotion underneath which is
that feeling that you have to feel and
move through to get through the trauma
that's why blame is just corrosive as
hell to a relationship and it's blaming
you blaming the other person that's all
has to be let go and the way to let that
blame go is just like it's a it's just
really simple is to see that it it's not
real
it's like they're at fault or is it
their parents that are at fault or is it
their grandparents or is it Society or
is it social norms or is it Beyonce who
taught you that you needed to have a
ring on it like who the [__] is to blame
for this thing like it doesn't it
doesn't resolve anything the question is
how are you going to move forward the
question is focusing how do we want to
be together what's our shared Vision
blame it's it's an elusive it's like
Perfection it's different for [__]
everybody anybody can have their point
of view the question is are we able to
be together how do we want to be
together how do we want to love each
other and how do we get there that moves
you forward looking in the past and
seeing who the [__] was
wrong just corrosive
[Music]